saddle stitch binding with staples is
commonly used for booklets magazines
catalogs and brochures in this tutorial
I'll show you how to saddle stitch bind
using staples with a focus on just the
binding method itself this can be useful
if you ever need to mock up a pamphlet
without sending it to a printer and if
you draw your own comics this can help
you make your own comic book this
binding method is commonly done by a
saddle stapler if you don't have one of
these tools and your regular stapler
doesn't reach past the width of your
pages here's another way you can achieve
the same results first here's a list of
materials and tools that I'll be using
for this book I'll be using ten sheets
of paper to determine the amount of
pages I would recommend your page count
not to exceed over half of the height of
your staples otherwise you won't have
enough staple left press down onto your
book to start fold or score the paper
where the spine will be you can run a
bone folder across the edge if you want
to if you don't have a bone folder see
the About section below for video on
substitutes then stack them in the order
you want
and place binder clips to hold them
together using a stapler staple out the
amount of staples you need for books
that are smaller I use two for taller
books I usually use three now unfold the
staples find the center of the spine and
make two marks where the staple will go
measure one and a half inches or about
four centimeters from the edges and make
marks for the remaining staples now
pierce through all the marks with an awl
you can find a video on all substitutes
below then push the staples through the
holes
and on the inside press the ends down an
eraser works well for this remove the
clips and fold the book you can put it
in a book press or put weights on it to
help the book stay closed for books with
a lot of pages you can use a utility
blade or an exacto to trim off the
excess paper on the edge
now your book is finished thanks for
watching this tutorial and feel free to
share this video or leave your comments
below for more tutorials be sure to
subscribe and check out the videos on my
channel to learn how to saddle stitch by
using thread check out the video to the
left and for more on how to achieve a
smooth finished edge check out the video
to the right for more information and
direct links see the About section below